The President:
Last weekend, on
the Fourth of July,
Michelle and I welcomed some of
our extraordinary military men
and women and their
families to the White House.
They were just like the
thousands of active duty
personnel and veterans that
I've met across this country and
around the globe.
Proud.
Strong.
Determined.
Men and women with the courage
to answer their country's call,
and the character to serve
the United States of America.
Because of that service; because
of the honor and heroism of our
troops around the world;
our people are safer,
our nation is more secure, and
we are poised to end our combat
mission in Iraq by
the end of August,
completing a drawdown of more than 90,000 troops since last January.
Still, we are a nation at war.
For the better part of a decade,
our men and women in uniform
have endured tour after tour in
distant and dangerous places.
Many have risked their lives.
Many have given their lives.
And as a grateful nation,
humbled by their service,
we can never honor these
American heroes or their
families enough.
Just as we have a solemn
responsibility to train and
equip our troops before we
send them into harm's way,
we have a solemn responsibility
to provide our veterans and
wounded warriors with the care
and benefits they've earned when
they come home.
That's our sacred trust
with all who serve --
and it doesn't end when
their tour of duty does.
To keep that trust, we're
building a 21st century VA,
increasing its budget, and
ensuring the steady stream of
funding it needs to support
medical care for our veterans.
To help our veterans and their
families pursue a college
education, we're funding and
implementing the post-9/11 GI Bill.
To deliver better
care in more places,
we're expanding and
increasing VA health care,
building new wounded
warrior facilities,
and adapting care to better meet
the needs of female veterans.
To stand with those
who sacrifice,
we've dedicated new support
for wounded warriors and the
caregivers who put their lives
on hold for a loved one's long recovery.
And to do right by our vets,
we're working to prevent and end
veteran homelessness -- because in the United States of America,
no one who served in our uniform
should sleep on our streets.
We also know that for many
of today's troops and their
families, the war doesn't
end when they come home.
Too many suffer from the
signature injuries of today's
wars: Post-Traumatic Stress
Disorder and Traumatic Brain Injury.
And too few receive the
screening and the treatment that they need.
Now, in past wars, this wasn't
something America always talked about.
And as a result, our troops
and their families often felt
stigmatized or embarrassed
when it came to seeking help.
Today, we've made it clear up
and down the chain of command
that folks should seek
help if they need it.
In fact, we've expanded mental
health counseling and services
for our vets.
But for years, many veterans
with PTSD who have tried to seek
benefits -- veterans of today's wars and earlier wars --
have often found
themselves stymied.
They've been required to produce
evidence proving that a specific
event caused their PTSD.
And that practice has kept the
vast majority of those with PTSD
who served in non-combat roles,
but who still waged war,
from getting the care they need.
Well, I don't think our troops
on the battlefield should have
to keep notes just in case
they need to apply for a claim.
And I've met enough veterans
to know that you don't have to
engage in a firefight to
endure the trauma of war.
So we're changing the
way things are done.
On Monday, the Department
of Veterans Affairs,
led by Secretary Ric Shinseki,
will begin making it easier for
a veteran with PTSD to get
the benefits he or she needs.
This is a long-overdue step that
will help veterans not just of
the Afghan and Iraq Wars, but generations of their brave
predecessors who proudly served
and sacrificed in all our wars.
It's a step that proves that America will always be there for
our veterans, just as they've always been there for us.
We won't let them down.
We take care of our own.
And as long as I'm
Commander-in-Chief,
that's what we're
going to keep doing.
Thanks.